and the Lord spoke to Moses take
vengeance on the Midianites for the
children of Israel afterward you shall
be gathered to your people
so Moses spoke to the people armed some
of yourselves for war and let them go
against the Midianites to take vengeance
for the Lord on the Midian a thousand
from each tribe of all the tribes of
Israel you shall send to the war so
there were recruited from the divisions
of Israel 1,000 from each tribe 12,000
armed for war then Moses sent them to
the war 1,000 from each tribe he sent
them to the war with Phineas the son of
Eleazar the priest with the holy
articles and the signal trumpets in his
hand and they Ward against the
Midianites just as the LORD commanded
Moses and they killed all the man's they
killed all the kings of Midian with the
rest of those who were killed Eve I
Rican serve her and Reba the five kings
of Midland Balaam the son of Beor they
also killed with the sword and the
children of Israel took the women of
Midian captive with their little ones
and took a spoil all their cattle all
their flocks and all their goods and
they also burned with fire all the
cities where they dwelt and all their
forts and they took all the spoil and
all the booty of man and beast then they
brought the captives the booty and the
spoil to Moses Eleazar the priest and to
the congregation of the children of
Israel to the camp in the plains of Moab
by the Jordan across from Jericho and
Moses Eleazar the priest and all the
leaders of the congregation went to meet
them outside the camp but Moses was
angry with the officers of the army with
the captains over thousands and
captain's over hundreds who had come
from the battle and Moses said to them
have you kept all the women alive
look
these women caused the children of
Israel through the Council of balaam to
trespass against the Lord in the
incident of peor and there was a plague
among the congregation of the Lord
now therefore kill every male among the
little ones and kill every woman who has
known a man intimately but keep alive
for yourselves all the young girls who
have not known a man intimately and as
for you remain outside the camp seven
days whoever has killed any person and
whoever has touched any slain purify
yourselves and your captives on the
third day and on the seventh day purify
every garment everything made of leather
everything woven of goat's air and
everything made of wood then Eleazar the
priest said to the men of war who had
gone to the battle this is the ordinance
of the law which the LORD commanded
Moses only the gold the silver the
bronze the iron the tin in the lead
everything that can endure fire you
shall put through the fire and it shall
be clean and it shall be purified with
the water of purification but all that
cannot endure fire you shall put through
water and you shall wash your clothes on
the seventh day and be clean and
afterward you may come into the camp now
the Lord spoke to Moses count up the
plunder that was taken of man and beast
you and Eleazar the priest and the chief
fathers of the Congo
and divide the plunder into two parts
between those who took part in the war
who went out to battle and all the
congregation and levy a tribute for the
Lord on the men of war who went out to
battle one of every 500 of the persons
the cattle the donkeys and the Sheep
take it from their half and give it to
Eleazar the priest as a heave offering
to the Lord and from the children of
Israel are you shall take one of every
fifty drawn from the persons the cattle
the donkeys and the sheep from all the
livestock and give them to the Levites
who keep charge of the tabernacle of the
Lord so Moses and Eleazar the priest did
as the LORD commanded Moses the booty
remaining from the plunder which the men
of war had taken was six hundred and
seventy five thousand sheep seventy two
thousand cattle sixty one thousand
donkeys and thirty two thousand persons
in all of women who had not known a man
intimately
and the half the portion for those who
had gone out to war was in number 337
thousand five hundred sheep and the
Lord's tribute of the sheep was six
hundred and seventy five the cattle were
thirty six thousand a which the Lord's
tribute was seventy two the donkeys were
thirty thousand five hundred of which
the Lord's tribute was sixty one the
persons were sixteen thousand of which
the Lord's tribute was thirty two
persons so Moses gave the tribute which
was the Lord's heave offering to Eleazar
the priest as the LORD commanded Moses
and from the children of Israel half
which Moses separated from the man who
fought now the half belonging to the
congregation was three hundred and
thirty seven thousand five hundred sheep
thirty six thousand cattle thirty
thousand five hundred donkeys and
sixteen thousand persons and from the
children of Israel's half Moses took one
of every fifty drawn from man and beast
and gave them to the Levites who kept
charge of the tabernacle of the Lord as
the LORD commanded Moses then the
officers who were over thousands of the
army the captains of thousands and
captains of hundreds came near to Moses
and they said to Moses your servants
have taken account of the men of war who
are under our command and not a man of
us is missing
therefore we have brought an offering
for the Lord what every man found of
ornaments of gold armlets and bracelets
and Signet rings and earrings and
necklaces to make atonement for
ourselves
the Lord so Moses and Eleazar the priest
received the gold from them all the
fashioned ornaments and all the gold of
the offering that they offered to the
Lord and the captains of thousands and
captains of hundreds was sixteen
thousand seven hundred and fifty shekels
the men of war had taken spoil every man
for himself and Moses and Eleazar the
priest received the gold from the
captains of thousands and of hundreds
and brought it into the tabernacle of
meeting as a memorial for the children
of Israel before the Lord
you